a meeting order for the regular
business meeting the december 7 o'clock
roll call mr burton president miss crop
here mr doss here mr mills here mr moon
here reverend ramsey yeah and mr
henderson is absent
can we have a motion to recess from
closed meeting we'll have to go back
later
i'll make it into my opinion
i'll be stacking it
open second roll call mr burton miss
crop hi mr doll aye mr meals aye mr moon
aye reverend ramsay aye mr henderson is
absent
could you give us motions for the items
in closed session we have a motion to
approve personnel changes but december
14 2021 as presented
i'll make that motion
a second
motion second in discussion
all in favor's roll call mr burton aye
ms crump aye mr doss aye mr mills aye mr
moon all right reverend ramsey hi mr
henderson is out
i apologize we're a little rushed so
we'll try to catch up now
the agenda should be pretty
straightforward
do we have any additions or changes in
the agenda
anything
can we have a motion to approve the
agenda is printed
i'll make that motion mr chairman second
motion made in second roll call mr
burton aye ms crowd hi mr dos aye mr
mills aye mr moon aye reverend ramsay
aye and mrs henderson is out
we have a motion to prove consent agenda
make a motion to prove the consent
agenda i'll second
roll call mr burton aye ms croc aye mr
dolls aye mr mills aye mr moon aye
reverend ramsey aye mr henderson is
absent
okay we public presentations we have one
name is mr martin fisher
if you want to come down and have three
minutes
merry christmas sir
well first of all rejoice our savior is
born a happy new year to you all as well
resolutions for 2022 should include
vigorous and intentional strategy
against the upcoming betrayal of
promises we already see with the
incoming administration
of bush league rhino
glenn younkin
i call on fellow parents and all who
favor education excellence remember
virginia's string of feckless gop
promise breakers
the past repeated strategy of offending
no one waiting and waiting as every
campaign promise is left to rot
that never works
we must double down we must rise we must
push back
there are numerous signs of yunkan's
duplicity
just one would be glenn yonkin when
asked if he would move against the
compelled speech practices that promote
the lies of transgenderism he refused
the question
he said instead we will ban critical
race theory
he refused the question he refused to
take a stand
we have to push hard our localities are
needed we must not wane from demanding
real representation
and by the way
critical race theory already hides
lurking in the shadows of a dozen or
more curricula
as supposed instruction on race equities
and other cleverly renamed lesson plans
that indoctrinate
instead of teach
the need for parental involvement is
only just beginning we must rise to this
occasion as our resolution for 2022
as our elected members representing us
you too must rise to this challenging
predicament that of a bush league rhino
pretending only pretending to have our
best interests in mind
thank you
thank you sir
do we have anybody that signed up to
speak to the budget
we got plenty of time but i appreciate
the
effort either way
character word of the month
while she's coming
i'm going to ask the student
representatives to do us a favor
i would like for y'all to go back to
your school and over the holidays
come up with some ideas where we
report back in sippington that will help
us
curb vaping
and
unlawful unwill i think
wrong use of cell phones
i for one but i'm ready to get rid of
cell phones
but
it's causing more and more disruption
and
y'all are in the schools every day i'd
like you to come back after sometime in
january talk to the superintendent about
those two issues
go ahead good morning chairman burton dr
jones and distinguished members of the
board my name is parker holt and i'm the
school board representative for tunstall
high school i will be speaking on the
character word of the month courtesy
as christmas approaches each year i
notice that even though the weather is
cold and the leaves have fallen there is
so much warmth in the atmosphere when
the christmas trees go up and the
candles are lit we are reminded of all
the good in our life
this time of year brings out a bit of
kindness and light out of everyone we
see the best versions of ourselves shine
one trait i really noticed that is
illuminated during this time of year is
our character word of the month courtesy
courtesy is defined as the consideration
and respect for others
sometimes showing courtesy to someone
who is rude to us can feel impossible
but we must not forget to hold this
straight near to our hearts
during the holidays when others seem
rushed and stressed we tend to be more
patient and understanding
this action can have a huge impact we
are all human beings and we all have
burdens we carry every day when we are
courteous to others we can shed a little
light upon their day i urge you to take
note of the curviness around curdiness
around you this holiday season and to
continue being courteous even after it
is over thank you thank you
[Applause]
you're going to make your report back
there you're going to come up here to
join us
okay
thank you you're welcome
hey merry christmas to you merry
christmas to you as well
um
i tell you it's an interesting time of
year it really is that was an excellent
speech thank you you're welcome i like
how she used the alliteration of
illumination of the character word
um
excellent
so uh i will say happy holidays to y'all
and start off with saying part of this
is a reflection for what we discussed
last month right
american education week 2021 right and a
lot of things were illuminated
over that time over the past
30 60 90 days
we've seen some things nationwide like a
massive need to address issues and
concerns in the education spectrum
a lot of those things include having an
inclusive learning environment you know
where parents teachers
administrators that the whole village
comes together
to tackle the challenges
of the child's education
and we know those challenges are very
different
our society is changing much like what
you just asked her to do the entire
representative
board to go back to school to figure out
how do you curb things like vaping cell
phone use but then when you start to
look a little bit deeper there are other
issues that are going on with these
children and those are things that we
have to face as a whole
in the learning environment each and
every
day
also when we look at things like
students arriving safely to school
because they have
an adequate amount of transportation
to be able to get through their bus
routes and that has plagued many of the
school divisions around us where routes
had to be canceled because kids couldn't
be picked up
and unfortunate to say oh you have to
learn virtually where we have to also
realize some of our students still don't
have access to a chromebook or
a digital device to do their work from
home
and then thinking also about the supply
chain needs right high tech gadgets are
not the only thing stuck in
ports or on ships or
trucks can't get them things like eggs
milk bread cheese
all those things affect the breakfast
and lunch menus every day of our young
people
matter of fact students were coming
unhinged they're like there's no
chocolate milk
you wouldn't think something as simple
as that could change a child's day and
it does
because it's an expectation of something
that brings some comfort
just a little container of chocolate
milk
and then thinking about student safety
their health and their welfare and
making sure that they're able to learn
and hit a goal
and most of that time my goal is
academic is being able to say hey i hit
a benchmark or i was able to pass this
or i was able to do that
but we have to look long term in that
spectrum
to see that that success takes them way
farther than being able to say that
they're a high school graduate
but they're a productive citizen and we
played a role in every part of that in
their life
and when we see the discord that's
occurred
it often makes you wonder are we ever
going to get there and if so
in what condition
so as we continue to foster a greater
breadth of knowledge
during these tumultuous times discerning
problems and then coming up with
solutions
prior to
the problem coming up
whoever thought that you know you have
to learn how to build the plane as
you're flying it
and we see that happening more and more
in education every day
and understand that we have to be vast
in what we're doing but also be very
responsive and reflective to those
issues as they arise
one of the things that i know for a fact
this time of year gives us pause
and last month we did get an opportunity
for pause it was two days before
thanksgiving break
i mean i will be very honest with you
there are my colleagues there were
people that were just literally some
days just crying
because they couldn't figure out what
they were going to do next because they
were trying to address so many needs at
one time
and the same thing with children
trying to figure out what they're
supposed to do
so i will tell you right now though i
know many educators including
administrators and teachers have to
adjust schedules
okay things like athletics school
activities events sol tests
industry certification tests and other
things
even though that adjustment had to
happen
the feedback has been overwhelmingly
positive
that you gave people a moment to take a
breath
and it may not feel like a lot
but it is when there's so much that you
have to bear
particularly when you see what's going
on in the world around you
particularly if it's at your own address
so i want to say thank you for that on
behalf of my colleagues in this county
thank you for giving everybody adults
and students the time to take
a breath
and understanding that there are ongoing
circumstances and situations
there is no magic wand things have not
changed
arguably things are getting worse in
some instances
i want us to take a time to reflect
and take into account the horrendous
tornadoes that ripped through
six different states friday night
you know who would have thought that
people could have had that much
devastation
happen literally watching their lives
shatter
in an instant
i know that some of my colleagues in
kentucky particularly james had his
house
gone his farm
gone
his mother's house is gone his sister's
house is gone
his family's okay
but his neighbors have passed
on top of that
six different students have had a lot of
loss in their life they're ffa members
in kentucky
and we're doing what we can to try to
give them support
so i'm asking you to reach out however
you can
if it's donations if it's prayer
we have to really bond together because
things like this continue to happen
and we can't ignore them because things
are happening in our children's lives
every
day and how easily could something like
that happen to one of us
in an instant
and how we want to be treated
in that case
so in some
as a board y'all have had to make a lot
of decisions you got to make decisions
tonight and moving forward
and i know that
the crown is heavy
upon your head
because you do not make decisions
lightly
because they impact so many people
and knowing that we're in a world where
people have to deal with devastation
every day and it seems like it's getting
worse
whatever you can do to lighten that load
goes a long way
in the lives of your employees and the
students that come to pennsylvania
county public schools
so
i'm going to say right now
we hope
that we can continue to reach every
child in every way
knowing that all these things are
happening and we look to you all for
your support
we wish we could do more and have more
to do it with so we could be even more
successful
so we show grace
though we are weary and we're warm we
all are
because we care
we continue to aspire to do what is
right by our students our colleagues in
the greater community
because that's the task that we've been
given
we pray for peace
that we can all do our jobs
and have your full support in what we do
in every school and every work site in
this county
and we seek respect from you
from what we're praying to how we're
treated
because we're here to do what's right
in the face of every circumstance
that comes our way
and we do have a glimmer of faith
that you will do right by us
because you know it's the right thing to
do
so again i wish you well
and a happy holiday season
and that you continue to be blessed and
highly favored in all that you do
thank you thank you
mr hudson
so you were looking my way the last time
i thought she skipped over the pea and
jumped down to me no yeah
thank you i knew where you were sitting
but good evening mr burton board members
uh dr jones has asked me to give you
just a short uh update on some of the
larger projects we have going on
the
phase three performance contract
the led lighting part is about 90
percent complete
the rooftop air conditioning
replacements at gretna and twin springs
they got three more units at each school
going to be replaced during christmas
break that will finish up all the air
conditioning replacements
um
the boiler at gretna elementary is
finished and running
the new chiller for gretna middle has
been delayed like everything else it was
supposed to be here the end of january
it'll be put in into january first of
february and that'll finish up the
performance contract when we get to the
chiller the last item on the list to get
done
the solar power
a lot more paperwork to do in solar
power than i realized this is taking a
lot more time getting to the point of
putting in panels but we're getting
closer i got a few minor roof repairs
they got to do now to get ready they're
saying start putting panels on the roofs
probably uh mid to late spring putting
panels up on the buildings
high schools first and then we'll roll
into middle schools hopefully in the
summer so
the sports field lighting project is
going pretty well going pretty quickly
the
baseball field and softball field at dan
river high school a complete
light to burn
baseball field childhood high school is
done
the wiring their wiring
should be completed at three feet all
three fields at gretna high school it's
football seasons finished here go ahead
and do all three fields while they're at
groutman high school
they're saying wiring completing that in
about three weeks
as soon as they finish gretna high
school they'll move to tunstall high
school and do all three fields at tulsa
high school and then go back to
gretna i mean i'll chatham and dan river
and complete the football fields
but it's polls for gretna high school
are supposed to be in monday
some of the football fields um field
polls for tungsten are going to be in
this coming monday so
moving along
um the new maintenance building um
that's progress is moving a little slow
but we've got the the office sec office
and maintenance shop section of it
pretty much ready to go which just a
matter of us getting moved in
and then we're going to move down and
get to work on the warehouse section and
try to get all the warehouse stuff ready
to go and get that moved out of whitmer
over to
the new building
the last project which we've been
talking about is the hvac replacements
for the schools you'll be receiving the
uh where you're going to
ask to prove the bids for pctc and
kentuck
later in the meeting but
those bids come in did come in
considerably higher than expected so
we'll be able to do less of those
projects than we would hope but
we can get part of them done
any questions
i got one oh we're gonna still be able
to get all the pctc ventilation and all
that work done
yes well
pctc and kentucky's which will be
completely 100 complete
yes hopefully
mrs hudson don't feel bad everything
i've done lately my business has cost
more than it did last week but a week
before
it takes twice as long to get it and
cost twice as much yeah that's right
if you can get some of them
thank you thank
you thanks
any questions on the desk reports
do we have a motion to accept them i'll
make an emotionally accepted death
report exactly
[Music]
okay dr john
yes sir mr burton school board members i
have a couple of items that i'd like to
draw your attention to that are good
news about a staff member and good news
about several our schools first i'd like
to recognize mr travis wood he's our
welding instructor at the career and
technical center
he's been recognized by chatham fire
department as the top call runner with
194 calls
from november of 2020 to november of
2021 and he also received the bobby
campbell
firefighter of the year award for 2021
so quite quite a recognition for one of
our staff members at the career
technical center
also most recently the u.s news and
world report
published the first ranking of public
elementary and middle schools
seven elementary schools and three
middle schools in pennsylvania county
made the best schools list
hurt elementary school was 11th union
hall
was 33rd
south side was 74th kentucky was 79th
grand l was 229th
stoney mill was 237th
and chatham l was 242nd
that's out of over 1100 elementary
schools in virginia and then for middle
schools out of 419 schools
chatham middle was 61st
tunstall middle was 63rd
and dan river middle was 65th it just
speaks volumes what miss petty
and miss haymore
mr mayhew and miss mr scott and staff
central office staff school level staff
are doing for our students
you know our students our schools are
always in the top tier
and we just feel very good about what
you all are doing so thank you all
assistant superintendents for that
also
mr burton was a part of a press release
this afternoon the west piedmont
planning district commission and river
street networks
announced an 87
million
dollar award
for the project to build fiverr
broadband
across
several different counties those
counties are amelia bedford campbell
charlotte notaway and pennsylvania
counties this will combine with the
money that you all have already
contributed through cares act
and uh
with the with the county
to to again leverage additional
homes that can and will receive
broadband
of access
the state gov the state will
release the governor's budget
to us on december the 16th at 3 30.
school divisions we've received a lot of
a lot of federal funds and has been
recognized
in our local papers and on
the news
but that funding is is earmarked for
special projects like window
replacements like improved instruction
like hvac
there's a quick turnaround and so there
are a lot of strings attached to that
money
we really need the state funds to to pay
for the operations of our buildings
because these federal dollars will drop
very quickly
we vass which is the virginia
association of school superintendents
asking the legislators to
maintain the
2022-2024 formula based re-benchmarking
of the soq
so as you are out and meeting with
legislators and possibly going to the
capitol convention
in january
also we'd like to ask
the legislatures legislators to look at
holding divisions harmless for adm
and lci changes
that will impact basic aid
and then the rural schools initiative is
making is asking the state for funding
for renovation and construction of
school facilities there was a study done
of schools older than 50 years of age
and i believe
50 or more of the schools in the state
are older than 50 years of age
and mr burton i think that's all i had
this evening other than to to
draw your attention to the capitol
conference is january the 24th
in in richmond
and the orientation for new board
members is january the 25th in richmond
and that's all i have this evening mr
burton
thank you sir
and we have one item unfinished business
have a motion to approve the two videos
for family life
i'll make that motion
second
any discussion
roll crawl please mr burton aye ms crock
aye mr doss aye mr mills aye mr moon aye
reverend ramsay aye ms henderson is that
in front of you there you have
guidelines for recognition
and placement of plaques at school
we have a motion to accept this and then
we'll ask any questions
i'll make that motion
on a second
motion made in second now do you have
any questions on this mr scott's here
roll call
mr burton hi miss cronk hi mr dolls hi
mr bills aye mr moon aye reverend ramsey
aye and mr henderson is absent
we need to set a meeting date for the
budget committee on january the 4th
i believe we have meetings already
scheduled to start at 5 30
at 5.
i'll sit in the third
you have two members already on but
i'll send him to the third one
do we have a time set for that
5 o'clock on the january 4th do we have
a motion for that
i'll make a motion
mr moon second
roll call mr burton hi miss cronk hi mr
dos mr mills aye mr mayne aye reverend
ramsay aye ms henderson is out
authorization for grant application
vdoe school bus driver incentive grant
i'll make that motion
in discussion on that
roll call mr burton aye ms crowd hi mr
dallas hi mr mills aye mr moon
reverend ramsey mr henderson is absent
procurement bid
and it's at your desk somewhere
we need a motion
for those and then discuss it also
i'll make the motion
a second ocean made a second to approve
them
before we vote
i haven't seen her for forever and she's
here tonight miss worley
could you please come forward and tell
us why
some of the reason we think these are so
high
the two of you together may need
there's a letter on the front of the
bids that will help if you haven't had a
chance to look at it
i uh i spoke with the i talked to the
the engineers uh we were
almost double budget
a couple things that's going on with it
uh material cost everywhere going up and
this
these projects have to be done following
all the federal regulations part of that
being davis bacon
wage rates which you have to pay
much higher labor rates
to do with any kind of project that's
tied to the federal projects
so but it's
i think it just just
caught well plenty of daily speaking and
then the cost of materials going up
mr that's one thing that didn't cross my
mind when this money was first passed
and coming to they were gonna have one
size fits all for this like to have
everything else
and i can understand if you've got to
follow their regulations at pay scale
and
all the other red tape it will drive
costs up significantly
so this is what we're going to have to
look forward to the any other money that
we receive from this february any
federal money you have to follow the
regulations to do that
i just want somebody else to sex me so
thank you
any questions
a roll call mr burton aye ms prophet mr
dog
mr mills aye mr moon aye reverend ramsay
aye mr henderson is absent
okay
yep i'm looking for that
miss trump is leaving us
i'm going to miss her
and this is no reflection on anyone else
but because of her experience another
division
and
what she's done in the past
she'd made me think about a lot of
things differently
she asked some real important questions
that maybe since i've been in so long i
just overlook i don't think about
and there are times uh that we agree and
there's times that we disagree
but i've always found her agreeable
and she doesn't mind explaining to you
why she feels the way she does
that's helpful for me
i enjoy conversations with people that
we are disagree on
and to talk things out
but she's been here four years she has
been a good service to the children of
this
county
and i appreciate that service
you got a little something there
cassandra crump pennsylvania county
schools 2018 to 21.
this looks like one of those old
desktops i thought we'd run out looks
like every time i think i'm told we'll
make a dig up boy
i'd just like to thank mrs crump for her
professionalism and a boardmanship over
the last four years it seems like it's
gone by really quick and and all
uh also the personal conversations and
caring
and all that she's shown for the board
members especially myself when i was
sick i appreciate that i know the lord's
got
something else
out there planned for you to do and
again i'd like to say thank you for your
time
the four years on the board thank you
i would like to say it's been a pleasure
to get to know you i didn't know you
before you came on the board you and
your husband both i know he's back there
um we're gonna miss you i wish you well
i appreciate the support you gave me
when i was chairman and the support
you've given mr burton you're gonna put
an asset
with your knowledge and and we'll miss
you and i wish you well in whatever you
do next
i i too would like to say that
certainly have enjoyed working with uh
ms crump
these four years i think we came on the
same time and so all this was relatively
new to us
but uh ms crump did an outstanding job
she represented her district well she
represented the board well and we
appreciate everything that you've done
to assist the
school system the students and employees
of pennsylvania county schools
yes mr crump i really appreciate your
dedication to the the students and the
staff and
and how much compassion you've brought
to the board and
just the conversations we've had i've
really enjoyed getting to know you
better and
and it's been a joy to serve on the
board with you and
i just you know thank you for what
you've done and and i hope god blesses
you and whatever you do next
[Laughter]
this is
[Applause]
[Music]
well yeah well you know mr crump i'm
gonna miss those uh
on the work conversations that i have
with you and then those when you're
coming home from work conversations that
we have
uh very good questions and
really
makes you you think about how we operate
down to the family and the student level
and the impact that it has on kids in
our schools
and going to miss that and also that the
knowledge that you have about really
operations in schools you really have a
good understanding of that i really
appreciate that
and just the deep questions that you ask
and and the the work that we have to do
to get back
to respond to you we appreciate that so
thank you keep us on our toes and we
appreciate it thank you
appreciate it
i just want to
say that i have appreciated the time
that i've been given to serve on the
board and
my continued prayers for each board
member
that you all will continue to work
together to
benefit the students staff and our
families of pennsylvania county
thank you
thank you any of the board members have
anything else
tonight we'll have a recess and go back
into closed session in about five
minutes
okay
reconvene from closed session and
certify action closed session can we
have a motion of that effect i'll make
it motion i'll second it
roll call mr burton aye ms cry hi mr mr
doss
mr mills
[Music]
action from closed session the motion to
expel a student with opera placement at
the regional alternative school for
continuing educational services to
complete graduation requirements
i'll make a good motion i'll second it
roll call
mr burton hi miss croc hi mr doll aye mr
mills aye mr moon all right reverend
ramsay aye mr henderson
thank everyone uh we
we finished out the year we made it
through
i hope you all have a happy
holiday season
and i have a motion for german i'm like
second
roll call mr burton hi miss croft hi mr
daus aye mr meals aye mr moon aye
reverend ramsey aye mr henderson is out
thank you
you